clarify ambient mode installation required for dns-proxy (#16230)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy/index.md

---

In addition to capturing application traffic, Istio can also capture DNS requests to improve the performance and usability of your mesh.
When proxying DNS, all DNS requests from an application will be redirected to the sidecar or ztunnel proxy, which stores a local mapping of domain names to IP addresses. If the request can be handled by the proxy, it will directly return a response to the application, avoiding a roundtrip to the upstream DNS server. Otherwise, the request is forwarded upstream following the standard `/etc/resolv.conf` DNS configuration.

While Kubernetes provides DNS resolution for Kubernetes `Service`s out of the box, any custom `ServiceEntry`s will not be recognized. With this feature, `ServiceEntry` addresses can be resolved without requiring custom configuration of a DNS server. For Kubernetes `Service`s, the DNS response will be the same, but with reduced load on `kube-dns` and increased performance.

This functionality is also available for services running outside of Kubernetes. This means that all internal services can be resolved without clunky workarounds to expose Kubernetes DNS entries outside of the cluster.

## Getting started

> In sidecar mode, all traffic passes through Layer 7 processing, and the `hosts` of a `ServiceEntry` can be matched to a HTTP header without requiring the use of DNS. In ambient mode, the ztunnel only sees traffic at Layer 4, and does not have access to HTTP headers. Therefore, DNS proxying is required to enable resolution of `ServiceEntry` addresses, especially in the case of [sending egress traffic to waypoints](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Troubleshooting-Istio-Ambient#scenario-ztunnel-is-not-sending-egress-traffic-to-waypoints).

Author: I think this is fine but to nit pick a little:
Technically sidecars have DNS proxy capability because not all traffic is suitable for this form of routing and that is perhaps unclear in this paragraph. We could consider adding "If routing based on HTTP header is not possible (TCP traffic for instance), DNS proxy can be enabled." or something to this effect but written more clearly.

> In sidecar mode, all traffic passes through Layer 7 processing, and the `hosts` of a `ServiceEntry` can be matched to a HTTP header without requiring the use of DNS. In ambient mode, the ztunnel only sees traffic at Layer 4, and does not have access to HTTP headers. Therefore, DNS proxying is required to enable resolution of `ServiceEntry` addresses, especially in the case of [sending egress traffic to waypoints](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Troubleshooting-Istio-Ambient#scenario-ztunnel-is-not-sending-egress-traffic-to-waypoints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio will generally route traffic based on HTTP headers. If routing based on a HTTP header is not possible - in ambient mode, or with TCP traffic in sidecar mode - DNS proxy can be enabled.

In ambient mode, the ztunnel only sees traffic at Layer 4, and does not have access to HTTP headers. Therefore, DNS proxying is required to enable resolution of `ServiceEntry` addresses, especially in the case of [sending egress traffic to waypoints](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Troubleshooting-Istio-Ambient#scenario-ztunnel-is-not-sending-egress-traffic-to-waypoints).
```

Author: I like it!

When deploying to a VM using [`istioctl workload entry configure`](/docs/setup/install/virtual-machine/), basic DNS proxying will be enabled by default.
{{< /tip >}}

{{< tip >}}
When using the ambient data plane in Istio 1.24 or earlier, DNS Capture is not enabled by default. To enable DNS Capture for ambient set `values.cni.ambient.dnsCapture=true` during installation.
{{< /tip >}}

> 

Reviewer: PTAL at https://deploy-preview-16230--preliminary-istio.netlify.app/latest/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/dns-proxy/

It says "This isn't enabled by default, here's how you enable it"

and now has a tip that says "this isn't enabled by default in 1.24 or earlier in ambient mode"

(a) is this now on by default for everyone in 1.25?  or only for ambient mode?
(b) can we reformat the instructions to say "Sidecar mode enablement", "Ambient mode enablement" etc
(c) can the sidecar mode enablement be as simple as the ambient mode enablement?
